In this lesson we will learn how to style navigation menu of links in front of you is an example page
that we created in an earlier lesson.
And in this lesson we're going to add a navigation menu in the header.
So let's get started by hopping over to our text editor and we know from an earlier lesson that the
HVM else created navigation menu begins with an element named Nav. within the nav element will create
an own ordered list and then obviously within the unordered list we'll create one list item for each
link within the list item will add a anchor or a link element and then let's copy and paste this several
times.
OK.
So we'll have one link that reads home another that reads about portfolio and contact us.
So if we save and refresh we can see that our header now has a series of links.
And our goal for this lesson is to style these links so that they look like a well-designed menu bar
.
Our first two tasks will be to a remove the bullets from each list item and B get the links to sit side
by side one another all on one horizontal line instead of stacking one per line.
So we'll begin by removing the bullets.
Let's add a class to this nav element so that it's easy to target with our CSA s site now.
Now in our CSSA let's create a new section.
We use a CSSA comment site navigation to create a comment and CSSA you include a forward slash and then
an asterisk to close the comment.
You include an asterisk and a forwards lodge and site navigation.
So now we can include RC SS between these two lines and we will stay very organized.
So will say site nav target the list items and we want their list style to be none.
So this will remove the bullets.
So our next step is to get the length to sit side by side one another.
We can use the float property to achieve this.
So while we're still targeting the list items we'll add a new declaration float and we'll float all
of the links or excuse me in all the list items to the left and we learned in an earlier lesson that
when you float a series of elements you need to clear the floats because currently if all of these list
items are floated there's parent element of UL has no idea that it has any content within it.
So for legal purposes we really need to clear our floats and we created a utility class named group
in an earlier lesson that we can reuse.
So by adding this class this element will now automatically clear the floats of its children.
So if we save and refresh we can see that all the links now sit on one line.
Next we can see that there is a bit of space on the left side of the navigation.
So to remove that we need to target the owner ordered list element because by default it has padding
and perhaps margin in certain browsers.
So we go into the site nav and then we target the unordered list element and we just want to remove
any default padding and margin that the browser might be trying to apply much better.
Next let's add a bit of space between the slogan and our navigation so to do that in our CSSA we will
target the nav element that has a class of site now and we'll give it a bit of top margin and top 20
pixels much better.
Now let's focus on styling the links themselves.
So we will begin by removing their underline to do that will jump inside the site nav element and then
target the A or the anchor element text decoration.
None.
Excellent.
Now let's customize the color of the links.
Let's override the default blue ink color.
So I like this green that we're using for the other header or text while we're targeting the A or the
link element in our success will add a new property of color and then we'll paste in that hexadecimal
color code so we can see the links from now green next letter and spacing around each link and also
give them a subtle border so that they begin to look like buttons that you're encouraged to tap or click
.
So while we are targeting the link elements we will add a property of padding 10 pixels vertical and
20 pixels horizontal.
And let's also give them a border.
Let's make their border the same color as the sidebar background.
And these subtle borders that we already see in the layout border three pixels solid and then the subtle
green color.
So if we see even refresh we can see a few things.
The first thing that we see is that the links themselves did receive the vertical padding so we can
see that they do have 10 pixels of padding on the top and 10 pixels of padding on the bottom.
However the content above and below the links is not aware of this padding.
So for example if I set this to 40 pixels vertical padding we can see that the links are overlapping
the content surrounding them.
And that's because by default link elements or elements are in line elements instead of block level
elements.
So all this means that by default the browser has this property display in line associated with an element
we want to override that default behavior.
We want a link to be a block level element.
So once the element is a block level element it can receive vertical padding and the content around
it will be aware of that padding.
So let's set this back to a reasonable value of 10.
And next let's add horizontal space between each link.
So to do that will target the list items and we'll add a bit of margin right.
Each list item 5 pixels next.
I think it would look neat if the links sat directly on this border line between the header and the
body content.
So let's remove that spacing on the header element we can see that it was receiving 20 pixels of bottom
padding.
If we remove that we can see that the spacing is gone.
But now there appears to be double thick borders where the buttons touch the existing border line.
So to remedy that we can simply remove the bottom border of Arlene's.
So here we are selecting the link elements we've already added a border.
We can just add a new property border bottom none.
If we were fresh we can see that the links now sit flush on this full borderline.
Finally let's add a hover effect so that when the user hovers over a particular link it changes its
style.
So to do that will create a new rule site.
Now a hover.
This is known as a pseudo selector.
We are targeting the A element.
But unlike this rule we are adding a pseudo selector of hover.
So now we can include styles in this rule.
We can say background color.
Use that subtle green.
So now if we save an refresh and hover over a league we can see that it lights up and that will bring
this lesson to a close just to show how powerful CSSA is really quickly let's remove all of the CSSA
we wrote in this lesson and then I'll add it back in.
But without it we were dealing with a simple bulleted list and with just a little bit of C Ss we were
able to transform it into this.
I hope this encourages you to believe that with CSS we can create any layout we imagine I will see you
in the next lesson